>> Mathew DesLauriers: Just scroll down.
Here's our circles.
We're just gonna comment those out for
now.
And instead of circles
we're gonna just try and
draw a text item at each
of those positions.
So we're gonna use context.fillStyle is
equal to color, just like we did before.
And then we just need to
write context.fillText.
And you can pass a string and an x and
y coordinate and that's how this
function works as you pass a string.
Which is,
it doesn't need to be a single character.
It could be a full string but
we're just gonna draw the letter A for
now and then an x and y coordinate
of where we're drawing the text.
And before we draw the text,
we wanna make the text
much bigger because if you're on your
screen, you might see little tiny pixels.
It's cuz they're quite small.
So we're gonna use context.font, and
let's say we're gonna use 100 pixels,
and then you have to specify
a font family string.
So it looks like this.
So 100 pixels is the size of the font, and
then in quotes Ariel is the font family,
and you can tweak that font family
to something else like Helvetica, or
something, whatever you want.
And so, now we have some text drawing and
like we did before we wanna make it so
that all of these are different sizes.
So instead of using a string,
I'm gonna use a template string here,
yes 6 feature and
I'm gonna replace 100 with radius
and probably won't see anything yet but
that's because our radius is actually very
small, we had to do radius times width.
So now if you do that you should start to
see the letter A a whole bunch of times
in a grid.
And it might be very small,
if it's very small go back up to your
data here and make it bit bigger.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
now instead of using the letter A.
Let's just try and use an equal sign and
that's gonna make it a bit more artistic
looking rather than
a bunch of random letters.
Now, we're starting to get
something more interesting.
And one last thing we can do is we can
try and rotate this text before we drive.
And so right now all of them are being
drawn just using normal rotation.
But if we, let's say try and
rotate the canvas before drawing, so
there's this method called rotate,
and you pass in a number, so
let's just pass in the number 1 for now.
It's gonna produce some weirdness.
And that's because remember that Canvas
is a state-based API, so when you
change something, it's just gonna remember
that same thing until you change it back.
So right now what's happening
is every time we draw something,
we're rotating the canvas
additionally one extra degree or
one extra radiant I think is
the value actually, not degrees.
And so what we need to do is
either rotate it backwards.
So you can do rotate -1, so
that's one way of doing things.
Another way I'm gonna do things is,
instead of doing that, I'll delete that,
I'm gonna say, before I draw my text,
and before I rotate I'm gonna
say context.save and then after I
draw it I'm gonna do context.restore.
And that's just gonna save
the transformation state.
And then I'm gonna draw stuff and
then once it's done drawing I'm gonna
restore it back to how it was before.
We're still not quite there yet
we just need one more thing.
Which is that we're rotating
the canvas by one radian here.
You can tweak this value and
you can start to see that it's
gonna look a little wonky.
That's because we're rotating
everything from the top left point.
And so what we actually wanna do
is we wanna rotate everything from
the grid coordinate.
Before drawing your text.
So what we're gonna do is
do context.translate[x,
y], and then we have to,
so it's translate,
then rotate, then fillText, at 0.0.
So we've translated to
the grid coordinate,
we've rotated the context by 7 degrees.
And then we're filling the text and
because we use translate we can
use 0.0 because the new origin point for
our context is x,y.
And then if you wanted
something just quick and
easy instead of using the same
rotation for all of them.
You can use some value.
Ideally what we want is we want
a different value from our data structure
both let's call it rotation.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
I'm just gonna de-structure that, and
I'm gonna add it to my object here.
So we have rotation, we're adding it
to the same grid of points, objects.
And then here we're de-structuring it
again, just like we did with the color and
the position.
And we're using that in
our rotate function.
And up here now, we can either give it
an entirely different value,
we can randomize it, we can use noise.
Or we can make it based on
the randomness as well.
The same randomness that we're using,
the same noise
randomness that we're using for
the size of the damage.
And so if you're getting this far then you
should already pretty much be in a state
where we can create pretty much the image
that we were looking at earlier.
It's pretty close,
it's maybe not exact, but with a bit more
tweaking we can definitely get there.
And you can imagine by
using different symbols,
such as instead of a circle you might
use a dash symbol or a period symbol.
You can also imagine using unicode symbols
like an arrow symbol might be kinda cool.
Or even taking random singles.
So just like we're de-structuring
the color, and the radius and
the position, you can de-structure
the single up here, maybe
choosing from the random list of different
characters or something like that.
And that's how I ended up producing
those images I've shown earlier.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And again you can
tweak all these values cuz right now
maybe it's a bit too small you can
make the grid a bit less dense,
you can make the sizes
a bit more pronounced.
You can also multiply the rotation
here by some other value.
If you multiply it by 0.5,
it's gonna rotate each thing less.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: So that's kind of,
I wanted to just give that whole workflow
for how to create an image like that,
because now we've introduced a whole bunch
of different topics, like noise,
randomness, using different color pallets.
And as well as just using canvas and
create a stuff like that.